The investor who calls himself the Australian headed out for a walk on his farm in the Alps of
New South Wales, three hundred miles south of Sydney. This was a morning in late March.
He’d been holed up there for a month with his wife and three kids, plus two portable oxygen units and
a store of hydroxychloroquine. “But my intention is not to get it,” he said, of covid-19. “I don’t plan
to see anyone until October.” He was talking on a cell phone. You could hear the caw of crows in the
background, and the luffing of the wind. “I only see four other people in the valley. If I need to kill
them, I will.” One assumed, from the way he laughed, that this was a joke.
The Australian, who spoke on the condition that his name not be used, is a voluble redhead just shy of
fifty. “Billions dude looks like me,” he wrote, in a WhatsApp message accompanied by a pair of
photos. He did indeed resemble Damian Lewis, the actor who plays a hedge-fund magnate in the
Showtime series “Billions.” “He stole my look.” Reared in Sydney, the Australian moved to New York
in 1994, when he turned twenty-two, to trade commodities at Goldman Sachs. At JPMorgan, he and
a couple of his countrymen—known as the Aussie mafia—earned the firm hundreds of millions in
profits during the early months of the financial crisis, in 2008. In 2015, he moved to Singapore.
Proximity to China, a bearish disposition, and an interest in the history of virulent diseases led him to
pay special attention to the effects that recent outbreaks had had on financial markets. Sars, H1N1,
Ebola. Last October, he listened to an audiobook by the Hardcore History podcaster, Dan Carlin,
called “The End Is Always Near.” “So I had pandemics and plagues in my head,” the Australian said.
“In December, I started seeing the first articles about this wet-market thing going on in China, and
then in early January there was a lot on Twitter about the shit in Wuhan.” He was in Switzerland on a
ski holiday with his family, and he bought all the surgical masks and gloves he could find. On the
flight back to Australia, he and his wife wore some, to the bewilderment of other passengers.