He escaped white mobs: At 33, photographer Theodore Gaffney risked his life to travel to the South with the Freedom Riders. "I was afraid I might not come back," he said in an interview for the PBS documentary Freedom Riders. Gaffney survived terror in 1961 Birmingham, Alabama, and had a long career. But on Sunday, he succumbed to the coronavirus, the Washington Post reported. He was 92.

Larger than life: That’s how colleagues describe veteran New York sports photographer Anthony Causi, who died Sunday from COVID-19. Causi, 48, was also described as soft-spoken, funny, dedicated, and kind. The New York Post photographer had been on assignment in Florida for two months covering baseball spring training and was diagnosed on his return to New York. He is survived by his wife, Romina, and their children John, 5, and Mia, 2.

Award season: Nat Geo contributors Esther Horvath and Luca Locatelli were among those taking first place awards in the World Press Photo Contest, and Yasuyoshi Chiba of Agence France-Presse won Photo of the Year for his image from a pro-democracy protest in Khartoum. See the winners here. ... Ten other photographers took prizes in the Sony World Photography Awards and will compete for the World Photography Organization’s photographer of the year, CNN reports. Those winning topics included a dead fish caught in a plastic bag, a protester being detained by police in Medellin, an iceberg in northeast Greenland, an intimate moment between two cheetahs, and a mile-long train carrying iron ore through Mauritania.

Capturing photographers, with Polaroids: It may be a camera that has seen ’better days, but Ken Yu’s One600 Classic Instant Camera has spit out thousands of Polaroids, many of them portraits of photographers worldwide. Yu’s scope and unpretentious approach set him apart, Nicole York writes for Fstoppers. “If you’re lucky enough to meet Yu and have your image added to his hoard,” York writes, “you might see photographers changing their Facebook profile photo to his Polaroids after he releases the digital versions.”