Through Project Chameleon, FINTRAC's financial intelligence has supported numerous municipal, provincial and federal police investigations related to money laundering and romance fraud. The following sanitized case is drawn from suspicious transaction reports, which were analyzed and used to develop financial intelligence for several Canadian law enforcement agencies and a foreign financial intelligence unit. The financial transactions are typical of those undertaken by individuals who have allegedly perpetrated romance fraud. It should be noted that names, dates, and some facts have been altered or omitted as required under the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act.

In this case, a bank submitted a suspicious transaction report indicating that Shelley, the first victim, made multiple large cash deposits totalling over $100,000. Wire transfers immediately followed these deposits to the perpetrator, Faruk, in Turkey. When asked about the purpose of the funds, she responded that it was to assist family members residing in that country. Shelley also ordered a wire transfer to the second victim, Karen.

FINTRAC received another suspicious transaction report revealing that Karen sent wire transfers totalling $29,000 to Faruk from her bank account. When asked, Karen explained that her son and a friend were working in Turkey and that funds needed to be sent to their co-worker Faruk, who has a bank account in that country. The bank recognized that her explanation as to why the funds were needed was an indicator of money laundering related to romance fraud highlighted in FINTRAC's Operational Alert: Laundering of the proceeds of romance fraud. Karen also unsuccessfully attempted to send funds totalling $24,000 through five different money services businesses to Faruk. She then sent a wire transfer to the third victim, Margaret.

According to information received from the Canadian Anti-Fraud Centre, Margaret filed a complaint indicating that she met Faruk online and fell in love with him. Faruk told her that he was leaving to work in Turkey and, since he did not have a bank account there, he needed Margaret to send him money immediately and he would pay her back later. FINTRAC received suspicious transaction reports from multiple banks based on a number of financial transactions indicating money laundering in relation to a romance fraud scheme. Over the course of several months, Margaret had deposited over $210,000 in cash and received approximately $420,000 from the sale of her home. She then ordered a wire transfer of $900,000 to Faruk in addition to an attempted wire transfer of $245,000 from her line of credit. Grounds for suspicion reported by these banks included various stories that Margaret told the bank, including that the funds were to assist her daughter and son-in-law to purchase a home in Turkey; that the Turkish government was withholding Faruk's money until he remitted taxes owed; and that the funds were to repay a loan to a friend.

In this case, the victims were also used as money mules, sending money from one victim to another. Money mules are used as part of the layering process of money laundering so that the funds are harder to track. In mass marketing fraud schemes such as romance fraud, perpetrators use the victim's account as a pass-through account by coaching them into allowing scammers to use their bank accounts to move funds on their behalf, often unknowingly.

Using the money laundering indicators developed as part of Project Chameleon, the financial entities were able to recognize the types of financial transactions that are indicative of romance fraud, and subsequently submitted suspicious transaction reports to FINTRAC. With this information, the Centre was able to undertake broader and more detailed analysis and generate proactive financial intelligence disclosures for several Canadian law enforcement agencies, as well as a foreign financial intelligence unit. The law enforcement investigation was still ongoing at the end of the fiscal year.

Project Chameleon has enhanced FINTRAC's ability to develop and disclose actionable financial intelligence to police and law enforcement agencies, leading to the identification, investigation and prosecution of romance fraud schemes. It has also helped to proactively protect victims and their money.